Email Marketing Campaign Analysis
Overview
This project analyzes email marketing campaign data to identify patterns in user engagement and build a predictive model to optimize future email targeting. The analysis examines how various factors like email content, sending time, user demographics, and purchase history affect open rates and click-through rates.
Features

Engagement Analysis: Calculate email open rates and click-through rates
Segmentation Analysis: Identify how different user segments respond to emails
Predictive Modeling: Build and evaluate a machine learning model to predict which users are most likely to click on links
Targeting Optimization: Estimate improvements in CTR through model-based targeting
A/B Testing Design: Framework for validating model effectiveness

Dataset
The analysis uses three CSV files:

email_table.csv: Information about emails sent (email_id, content type, version, timing, recipient details)
email_opened_table.csv: Records of which emails were opened
link_clicked_table.csv: Records of which email links were clicked

Requirements

Python 3.8+
pandas
numpy
matplotlib
seaborn
scikit-learn

Setup and Installation

Clone this repository or download the files
Install required packages:
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn

Place your CSV data files in the same directory as the scripts
Run the analysis:
python email_analysis.py


Key Questions Addressed
1. Email Campaign Performance

What percentage of users opened the email?
What percentage clicked on the link within the email?
What is the click-through rate of opened emails?

2. Predictive Model for Optimization

Can we predict which users are most likely to engage with emails?
What factors best predict user engagement?
How should we prioritize recipients in future campaigns?

3. Expected Improvement

By how much could targeting improve click-through rates?
How does the improvement vary by targeting threshold?
How can we test and validate these improvements?

4. Segment Analysis

How does email performance vary across different user segments?
What combinations of factors yield the highest engagement?
Are there specific timing patterns that work better for certain user groups?

Results
The analysis generates several visualizations to help interpret the results:

Feature Importance: Bar chart showing which factors most strongly influence click behavior
CTR Improvement: Line chart showing expected CTR improvement at different targeting percentages
Segment Patterns: Multiple charts showing how engagement varies across different segments

A/B Testing Methodology
To validate the model's effectiveness:

Split recipients into control (random selection) and test (model-based selection) groups
Send identical emails to both groups simultaneously
Compare CTR between groups using statistical significance tests
Calculate confidence intervals for the observed improvement

Future Work

Incorporate email content analysis using NLP techniques
Add time-series analysis to identify seasonal trends
Develop a user interface for real-time targeting recommendations
Extend the model to predict optimal sending times for each user
